# Relay of CoF (Certificate of Finality) & OSC (Omnichain State Commitment

Solving the verification aspect of interoperability is only part of the challenge. Another key issue in achieving interoperability is how to **enable the destination chain to perceive the state of the source chain**, or more specifically, how to **reliably relay the finalized state of the source chain to the destination chain**.

To address this, Silva Protocol provides two methods: ***CoF (Certificate of Finality)*** and ***OSC (Omnichain State Commitment)***.

* **CoF**: As mentioned in the Rollup section, the Fast Finality Layer rapidly generates *CoFs* for each rollup chain within its respective finality confirmation partition, serving as a *CoF* for state. Similarly, for bridged chains, each has its own corresponding partition within the Silva Network. However, unlike Rollups, *CoFs* are only constructed for bridged chains **when there are cross-chain transaction requests** involving their block states. Whether it's a *CoF* from a bridged chain or a rollup chain, in cross-chain operations, it can serve as a **trustworthy carrier of the source chain’s state** and be relayed to the destination chain. Since *CoFs* are generated within seconds (\~1s) , they enable **fast and high-frequency cross-chain transactions**.

* **OSC**: The Omnichain State Commitment Layer periodically constructs **Omnichain State Commitment Package**, which aggregates the finalized states from all finality partitions during that period. Its structure is organized as a **Merkle Tree**, and the Merkle root is referred to as the ***OSC***. Therefore, *OSC* is a compressed summary of finalized state data across all chains within the Silva Network for a given period. When relayed to the destination chain, it enables **omnichain state perception and verification**. However, since *OSCs* are built at a lower frequency, cross-chain interactions based on *OSC* may incur **higher latency**. That said, because *OSC* aggregates a large volume of state information, **the cost per cross-chain transaction is extremely low**. Additionally, omnichain governance-related system messages are also relayed to all chains via the *OSC.*

Cross-Chain Applications/Clients can **flexibly choose between *CoF* and *OSC*** based on their performance or cost needs. Currently, Silva Protocol **provides an official relayer for *OSC*** transmission. In contrast, ***CoF*** **relaying needs to be handled by the cross-chain application teams themselves** through their own relayers.